Wade Kariniemi 1202111213
CSE 240

Biggest differences between Visual Studio and a text editor on linux environment:

1. Compiling
  linux: I use vim, which has a simple .vim file added to the plugins in order to make the compiling easier. I bound my f10 to execute a gcc command that compiles, if no error found
         creates the program file using the same name as the program.c name. It has similar functionality to visual studio in that only one keystroke is needed to compile (f10). 
         Everything is done in terminal, or in vim so there are no real visual aids, it is run at a very low resource intensity.

  Visual Studio: Huge benefit of this is constant compilation in the background, so you get instant feedback on errors. Quite handy, but high in resource usage (not ideal with a cheap machine).
                 Alternatively, you could use a simple f5 command. Another big difference is the use of a mouse or trackpad. Because I prefer using a full keyboard layout, as it improves speed,
                 I found this cumbersome and sometimes irritating.
2. Editing
  linux: It is quite easy to ssh into a remote server from terminal, access file from terminal, and edit via vim.  This process is extremely fast.

  Visual Studio: If the edits you are wanting to perform are quite large, it would make sense to grab a local copy, which you can quickly do using a program such as filezilla.  
                 you can then use the very handy visual aids that come with a full fledged IDE, which include completing the commands for you (easily the biggest benefit). 

3. Debugging
  Linux: After a bit of tweaking my vim environment I was able to effortlessly debug the program. I was directed to one issue at a time, and was able to fix it.

  Visual Studio: A much better, more efficient debuggins is the compiling as you write feature. This made debuggin a live event, rather than a follow up. pretty handy.

4. executing

    linux: simplicity.  It is very easy to run a program with linux through terminal using ./programname 

    Visual Studio: f5 simply runs the program, after a succesful compile. Very easy and handy. 
